BEAVER CREEK, Colo. — Tina Maze is quickly becoming the undisputed queen of Beaver Creek. The 31-year-old Slovenian convincingly won Monday's alpine combined event, her second gold and third medal in three races at the world championships.

American favorite Lindsey Vonn had a subpar day, fighting the mountain in the morning downhill portion of the combined and then straddling a gate after approximately 20 seconds in the afternoon slalom.

Vonn did not talk to news media after her slalom miscue. However in a short audio interview provided by the U.S. Ski Team, the four-time overall World Cup champion and Vail resident expressed her emotions.

"I'm just really disappointed — it's a hometown world championships and I've really tried as hard as I can and I've came up short," said Vonn, who has one bronze medal, in super-G, in three races in Colorado. She was fifth in Friday's downhill. "I had a lot of expectations and I've tried my best to live up to them.

"It's disappointing for myself, my family and for my fans," said Vonn, holding back tears.


USA TODAY
Alpine World Ski Championships

Maze, who clocked the fastest time in the morning downhill, was sure and steady on a soft, sun-baked slalom course, posting the fifth-best time. Her combined time of 2 minutes, 33.37 seconds was 0.22 seconds faster than Austrian runner-up Nicole Hosp.

Maze is on target for five medals in five events, a feat that Norwegian great Lasse Kjus accomplished the last time the world championships were in Vail/Beaver Creek in 1999.

"It would be amazing to do that, but of course it's not easy," Maze said of the five-medal quest. "You have to be focused when you are at the start, but why not."

Maze continues to establish herself as one of the sport's all-time greats. Monday's victory was her fourth career world championship title and ninth top-three podium finish. At the Sochi Olympics, she won gold medals in downhill and giant slalom.

Two seasons ago, Maze captured her first career overall World Cup title, breaking the all-time points record. With a commanding lead over Austrian Anna Fenninger and Vonn, she is poised to add another title.

Vonn had an uncharacteristic performance in the downhill, posting the seventh fastest time. She skied erratic and seemed off kilter at times, while trying to find her line.

"I didn't feel like I had any grip whatsoever," Vonn said. "I guess I hit a rock. It's pretty hard to hold an edge when you have no edge. I feel like I came in with a high line, but kept on drifting lower and that's not fast."

Vonn also said that her surgically repaired right knee was bothering her.

Vonn, who missed a World Cup test event on the Raptor downhill track last season while recovering from knee surgery, seems to be somewhat intimidated by the new course in her backyard.

"I've been struggling with this downhill. I haven't skied ice since my injuries and I need a little more practice before I can be fast on it," Vonn said.

Maze said she can relate to Vonn's difficulties. "I know exactly the feeling when things are not going the way you want to," Maze said. "It's happened to me, it's happened to everybody. You just have to trust in yourself and I'm sure she'll be competitive in the next races."

The championships continue Tuesday with the dual-gender nations team event, which Maze and Vonn will skip. Maze seeks medal number four here in Thursday's giant slalom, an event that Vonn will also race.