BEAVER CREEK – Tina Maze of Slovenia has captured gold in the Alpine combined, earning her third medal of the world championships on a warm afternoon when Lindsey Vonn failed to finish the slalom.


Leading after the downhill portion, Maze used a clean slalom run to finish in a combined time of 2 minutes, 33.37 seconds Monday. Nicole Hosp of Austria was second, 0.22 seconds behind, and fellow Austrian Michaela Kirchgasser earned third.

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
#VAIL2015: AMERICANS RACE IN LADIES' ALPINE COMBINED DOWNHILL FULLSCREEN

Laurenne Ross of the US skis the course during the Laurenne Ross of the US skis the course during the 2015 World Alpine Ski Championships women's combined-downhill February 9, 2015 in Beaver Creek, Colorado.  NATHAN BILOW/AFP/Getty ImagesFULLSCREEN
Laurenne Ross of the US skis the course during the	Lindsey Vonn of the US reacts in the finish area during	Lindsey Vonn of the US reacts in the finish area during	Lindsey Vonn of the US reacts in the finish area during	Lindsey Vonn of the US reacts in the finish area during	Laurenne Ross of the US slides into the finish area	Julia Mancuso of the US looks back up the hill from	Julia Mancuso of the US looks back up the hill from	Lindsey Vonn of the US gets air on the Redtail jump	US skier Julia Mancuso speeds down durring the 2015	US skier Lindsey Vonn speeds down durring the 2015	Laurenne Ross of the US gets air after the Redtail	Laurenne Ross of the US gets air after the Redtail	US skier Julia Mancuso speeds down during the 2015	Laurenne Ross of the US lands after the Redtail jump	Lindsey Vonn of the United States races during the	Julia Mancuso of the United States races during the	Laurenne Ross of the United States races during the	Jacqueline Wiles of the United States races during	Lindsey Vonn of the United States races during the	Lindsey Vonn of the United States races during the	Lindsey Vonn of the United States races during the	Julia Mancuso of the United States races during the	Ski slope	Laurenne Ross of the United States races during the	Laurenne Ross of the United States races during the	Jacqueline Wiles of the United States races during
Next Slide
27
PHOTOS

Vonn struggled in the downhill with the icy surface bothering her surgically repaired right knee and then straddled a gate, ending her day. Vonn was in tears after the race.


Maze adds this gold to the silver she won in the super-G and gold in the downhill. She's trying to match Norwegian great Lasse Kjus, who earned five medals at the 1999 worlds in Beaver Creek.


Kjus said of Maze's pursuit: "She's a fantastic skier. She can do it."