BEAVER CREEK, Colo. -- With lofty expectations and a highly energetic hometown crowd cheering on her every turn, Lindsey Vonn was unable to win a second medal at the world championships, finishing fifth in the ladies downhill.

Vonn completed her run on the steep and sinuous 1.6-mile Raptor downhill course in one minute 46.94 seconds, slightly more than a second off the pace of Slovenian winner Tina Maze.

The 30-year-old racer from Vail – who skied to a bronze medal in Tuesday's super-G – never quite found her rhythm and made a few costly mistakes, losing valuable time, midway down the demanding slope.

"I was extremely motivated and determined and when I went out of the starting gate I had a really good feeling," Vonn said following her run. "I just didn't quite do it today."

"You have to hit the line right in a couple of key sections and today with the faster speeds, my timing was a little bit off," Vonn said, referring to a faster course on Friday, the result of varying snow conditions compared to training runs on Monday and Thursday.

"I just haven't gotten a great feel for the course yet – I'm the only one who didn't do the downhill and all the test World Cup events last year," said Vonn, who missed an opportunity to race on the Raptor course last season due to her rehabilitation from a second serious knee injury.

Vonn advised that she did not speak to boyfriend Tiger Woods prior to today's signature race. Woods withdrew from the Farmers Insurance Open in San Diego on Thursday, citing back pain.

The Slovenian Maze won an extremely tight and dramatic race by a narrow 0.02 seconds over Austrian Anna Fenninger, on what was a sunny and picture-perfect Colorado Rockies late morning. Lara Gut of Switzerland was third.

"Lindsey didn't have a good training run yesterday, so I knew that Anna would be the one to beat today," Maze said after victory. "Lindsey was behind already in the middle part and even though she's a good glider, I knew that she could not make that time up."

Maze achieved her third career world championship victory – one more than Vonn – and eighth podium. The 31-year-old, who currently leads the overall World Cup standings by a substantial margin ahead of Fenninger and Vonn, became the first-ever Slovenian gold medalist in a world championship downhill.

"It is special -- world championships are the biggest race of the season and I really came here with a big wish and will to win," Maze said.

Maze, who set the all-time World Cup points record two seasons ago as overall World Cup champion, has proven herself as the most versatile racer on tour. Now with gold and silver medals in the opening two races, she has a chance for five medals in five events during the fortnight in Beaver Creek.

"Of course it's in my mind, but thinking about this makes no sense," Maze said. "You just have to go discipline by discipline, turn by turn, but hopefully I can do that."

Fenninger's silver is her second medal of these championships as she edged Maze for victory in Tuesday's opening super-G. Including a win by Hannes Reichelt in the men's super-G, the Austrian Ski Team has two gold and one silver medal in three races.

"It's really exciting that we can take three medals for the team and it's been a really good start," Fenninger said. "It's easier for us to ski here in the U.S. without so much Austrian media like in Schladming (2013 world championships in Austria). For us, it's been great."

It was a tough day all-around for the U.S. ladies. Five-time world championship medalist Julia Mancuso finished 16th, Laurenne Ross was 17th and Stacey Cook 19th.

Vonn will return to the racehill for two more events – the super combined next Monday and the giant slalom on Thurs. Feb 12. It appears unlikely that she will attain another medal, considering her lack of recent training and races in giant slalom and slalom.

"I wish I could have done some better for the public and my family today, but I still have two more chances," Vonn said. "Although my chances at doing something there are slim, I will definitely be giving 110-percent and maybe I can make a miracle happen."

As the first alpine world championships in the U.S. since 1999 continue, Saturday is the signature men's downhill. Bode Miller will not be in the line-up following his horrific crash on Thursday - which resulted in a severed hamstring tendon – however California's Travis Ganong and Utah's Steven Nyman carry medal hopes for Team USA.

Both Nyman and Ganong have won World Cup downhills in Italy in December, and Nyman finished third on Beaver Creek's vaunted Birds of Prey course at a World Cup race on December 5th.