BEAVER CREEK, Colo. — Tearing down the Raptor course with boyfriend Tiger Woods and a massive partisan crowd looking on at Red Tail Stadium, Lindsey Vonn settled for a bronze medal in the world championships opening super-G race.

In what was a thrilling and extremely tight race — on a demanding course shortened by 650 feet due to winds and light snowfall — Austrian Anna Fenninger quelled the American party, skiing to victory by 0.03 seconds over Slovenian Tina Maze and 0.15 ahead of Vonn.

"I'm happy with the way I skied, I'm happy with the result — I just wish the weather was a little bit better," Vonn said.

"My mindset [at the start] was that I'm screwed — I definitely had a pretty strong headwind right out of the gate," said the 30-year-old American. "I was already three-tenths out over the first 20 seconds and it's a little bit hard to make that up."


USA TODAY
Tiger Woods at race to support Lindsey Vonn

Vonn kicked out of the start house 18th, just prior to Maze and four racers before Fenninger. Despite losing time at the top, Vonn charged in her inimitable style, clocking 98 mph and pulling back a half a second on the lower part of the course to grab the lead.

"On the bottom part of the course where there wasn't any wind I was pretty fast," said Vonn, who took the lead from Austrian Cornelia Huetter by 0.11.

The crowd erupted in applause as Vonn celebrated, but her lead was short-lived, as the next racer Maze bumped her from the top spot by 0.12.

Vonn, a longtime Vail resident, who was urged on by the exceedingly large crowd for a U.S. ski race, admitted that she had some butterflies at the start.

"I was a little bit nervous, but I feel like I had it under control," she said. "Maybe I was a little bit stiff on the first couple of gates, but that's nit-picking."


Lindsey Vonn fought against those tough conditions and a head wind, coming in third with a bronze medal in the World Ski Championships super-G event. VPC

Vonn acknowledged having the support of Woods in the finish area. Wearing a black jacket, black hat and sunglasses, the golfer was shown on the large video screen reacting to the highs and lows of Vonn's day. He's scheduled to play in this week's Farmers Insurance Open in San Diego.

"Of course, I'm happy he's here," Vonn said about Woods, who also witnessed her win a record-breaking 63rd World Cup victory a few weeks ago in Italy.

The bronze medal in Beaver Creek was Vonn's sixth career world championship medal, tops all-time among American racers.

"To come away with a medal is awesome," Vonn said.