BEAVER CREEK, Colo. — Led by Lindsey Vonn, who comes in confident after her record-setting stretch, the U.S. Ski Team seeks to carry its success on the world stage from the Sochi Olympics to the first alpine world championships contested in the United States since 1999.

Vonn, Julia Mancuso, Mikaela Shiffrin, Bode Miller and Ted Ligety are the leading names of the 26-member U.S. squad that has the potential to surpass its five-medal total from Sochi, at the championships in Vail/Beaver Creek, Colo., beginning Tuesday.

Vonn, Mancuso, Miller and Ligety each have five career world championships medals to their credit.

"I think we have a powerhouse team coming into these championships much like the Austrians did in 1999," said Miller, who confirmed Monday he plans to race for the first time since back surgery.

Now the most accomplished U.S. ski racer in history with a record 64 career World Cup victories, Vonn is among the favorites for Tuesday's super-G. In what has been an impressive and somewhat surprising comeback from injury, Vonn has won five of her 10 races this season.

"I'm ready for Vail – I feel confident," said Vonn, a Vail resident and hometown favorite. "I'm skiing well and hopefully it will be a good world championships for me. I have a lot of confidence after having a few days of training at Beaver Creek. It's a very difficult hill and one that requires a lot of tactics."

Although World Cup points are not at stake during the fortnight of races, Vonn, 30, leads both the downhill and super G World Cup standings and is third overall – 339 points behind Slovenian rival Tina Maze. Shiffrin is currently in fourth place.


USA TODAY
Lindsey Vonn has admirers in high places

U.S. skiers have fared well this season on the World Cup circuit, with seven racers having attained top three results, while five have won races: Vonn, Shiffrin, Ligety, Steven Nyman and Travis Ganong.

Vail/Beaver Creek has been an annual World Cup stop with these championships marking the third time that the luxurious Colorado resort has hosted the showcase ski racing event (1999 & 1989).

In a different era and less prosperous time for U.S skiing, the team's top result at the 1999 championships was a sixth-place finish by Chad Fleischer in the men's super-G.

At the two previous home championships, the U.S. has also claimed only two medals as Tamara McKinney won gold and bronze in 1989.

It seems more than likely that the U.S. racers will add to the total.

Ligety, 30, enters his sixth world championships, coming off an astounding performance at the 2013 championships in Austria, where he achieved triple gold – winning the giant slalom, super-G and super combined. The Park City, Utah skier is also the two-time defending world giant slalom champion.

"It's awesome having the World Champs in the U.S," Ligety said. "It's something I've never experienced before, so it's going to be a lot of fun having a big event in the US."

"It's always nice to take the Euros out of their element a little bit and have them living in their duffle bags for a couple of weeks as opposed to always being the North Americans," he said.

Miller says he'll be ready to compete in Wednesday's men's super-G. The six-time Olympic medalist has yet to start a race this season as he continues to recover from ambulatory back surgery in November. However, the 37-year-old has shown progress in training runs and also served as a forerunner at races in Austria and Switzerland over the previous two weekends.

"I'm here and I'm ready to race," Miller said Monday afternoon. "I don't have full decision making power, but I'm comfortable racing the downhill and super-G and potentially the super combined. Sasha (Rearick, the U.S. men's head coach) and I will talk about it, but definitely starting with the super-G."

For Miller, it will be his eighth world championships. He is the only U.S. skier who was also on the squad at the 1999 Vail world championship, where at the age of 18, he finished eighth in the slalom.

Nyman and Ganong – both World Cup downhill winners in Italy in December – are likely to contend in the men's speed events during the opening week of the championships. Nyman finished third in a World Cup downhill at Beaver Creek in December.

Mancuso has traditionally risen to the occasion on the big stage and enters her seventh world championships trying to add to her five career medals.

"I'm really close to having a breakthrough," said Mancuso, who has only one top-10 finish in five races during 2015. "I'm going to work hard and hopefully be fighting for the medals in Beaver Creek. It's tough - it's a really hard hill with some really extreme parts. It will take some great skiing."

During the second week of the championships, much of the attention will turn to Shiffrin. The 19-year-old Olympic slalom gold medalist looks to defend her slalom title from the 2013 championships.

Like Vonn, Shiffrin will be racing on familiar terrain and will certainly receive immense support from her hometown fans.

The men will race on the vaunted Birds of Prey course, while the women take to the demanding new Raptor track. Both courses meet and share the same finish area in Red Tail Stadium.