GARMISCH-PARTENKIRCHEN, Germany (AP) — Lindsey Vonn is back doing what she does best, winning races and making history with each new win.

After missing out on a gold medal at last month's home World Championships and a few sub-par races in the aftermath, Vonn won a World Cup Super-G on Sunday to regain the lead in the discipline with one race remaining.

Vonn is chasing her fifth Super-G World Cup title and stretched her record with a 23rd race win in the event.

"Yesterday was disappointing so I came out with the right attitude," Vonn said after the race as she stripped to a sleeveless neon-yellow T-shirt with "making history" written on it.

Vonn was seventh in Saturday's downhill and made sure she bounced back.

"I wanted to ski my best and attack and I did. A nice way to win," Vonn said.

The American put together a winning time of 1 minute, 16.65 seconds in sunny conditions.

Overall World Cup leader Tina Maze of Slovenia was .20 seconds behind and Anna Fenninger of Austria was .36 back in third.

Vonn's 65th career win, another record, gave her an eight-point lead over Fenninger in the Super-G standings. The last race in the event is at the World Cup finals in Meribel, France, later this month.

"It's going to be a close fight. I'll have to ski my best and I hope I can get two titles," said Vonn, who is also chasing the downhill crown.

Vonn could equal Katja Seizinger's record of five Super-G titles.

Lindsey Vonn sports a 'Make History' shirt after winning
Lindsey Vonn sports a 'Make History' shirt after winning the women's super-G race in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany. (Photo: Nicolas Armer, EPA)
Maze increased her overall lead over Fenninger to 44 points.

"She has been putting a lot of pressure on me. I knew I had a good run," said Maze, whose coach set the course.

"It's in difficult moments that you can show your character and I did today," Maze said. "I had a very good run, I was ready."

Maze said she was aware that the way the course was set would also benefit Vonn. "But if it was set tighter, it would have helped Anna," she said.

Vonn said Maze's coach made a "wise decision."

Fenninger had won back-to-back races in Bulgaria last weekend and finished ahead of Maze in Saturday's downhill, when she was second and the Slovenian third, cutting into Maze's overall lead. There are six races remaining, including a pair of gate events in Maze's homeland.

"I saw that Tina had a great run so I had to take risks and it was close," Fenninger said. "It was a fast race, with broad turns."

Vonn is the only female skier to have won more than one Super-G race on the demanding Kandahar course in Garmisch. She also took the races in 2009 and 2010. She has now won five races in Garmisch.

The American now also has sole possession of second place with the number of top-three finishes on the World Cup circuit with 111, three behind the record of 114 held by Annemarie Moser-Proell of Austria.