BEAVER CREEK, Colo. -- Lindsey Vonn and Mikaela Shiffrin charged from behind, skiing aggressively during their second runs, but it wasn't enough to land on the podium in the women's giant slalom Thursday.

Vonn climbed from 26th to 14th place, while Shiffrin moved up from 13th to eighth.

Austrian Anna Fenninger sped to her second gold medal of the championships, winning the race by an astounding 1.40 seconds over German runner-up Viktoria Rebensburg.

Vonn thrilled the large hometown crowd, clocking the fifth fastest time of the second run. The six-time world championships medalist saluted the fans immediately after crossing the line and again as she stood in the finish area leader's box.


USA TODAY
Tiger Woods cheers on Lindsey Vonn at giant slalom race

Vonn's boyfriend, Tiger Woods, was again in Beaver Creek for the races, encouraging her after a lackluster first run, including a big mistake where she turned her skis sideways and lost time.

"He just said let's end on a positive note — in the second run show them what you can do. And I did," Vonn said.

Asked if she had discussed Woods' break from the PGA Tour with him, Vonn quickly responded with a laugh, "Nope. I'm not talking about that."

Thursday's giant slalom was the final race of the championships for Vonn, whose only medal came in the super-G on Feb. 3, an event in which she took bronze.

"I enjoyed having the support of the crowd and my family here, maybe I just wanted to do well too much," Vonn said, summing up her world championships. "I'm leaving here with a special feeling, even though I didn't get as many medals as everyone expected me to."

Shiffrin, who like Vonn resides in Vail, received a tremendous boost from the crowd and skied a respectable second run. "I'm feeling pretty good where my GS is at, even though it didn't show through today," said Shiffrin, 19, who won the season-opening GS. "I know that I'm making improvements, so I'm excited."

Shiffrin, the defending world slalom champion, said she is looking forward to defending her world title Saturday.


USA TODAY
Tina Maze wins third medal at worlds; Vonn struggles

"I think it's going to be a fun no matter what," Shiffrin said, regarding the slalom. "There's a little bit of confidence knowing what it feels like coming into this finish area, skiing this hill again and knowing where the sun is. GS and slalom are completely different events — I just have to move my feet quick."

Fenninger, despite making a huge mistake late in her second run, throwing her skis into a snowplow and almost toppling over head-first, aptly recovered to claim her third medal of these championships.

"You don't come to an event saying that I'm going to win two, three or four gold medals, you just execute and it happens," Fenninger said. "It has gone perfectly, like a dream."

Slovenia's Tina Maze came up short in her quest to win five medals in five races, finishing fifth Thursday.

"I knew I had chance, but it's a hard thing to do," Maze said. "I didn't come here for five medals, everybody started talking about that when they saw my skiing. I really hope I can do something on Saturday in slalom."

American Julia Mancuso finished 26th in her final race in Colorado, her best result of the championships coming in the super-G, an event in which she was ninth.

"It's definitely a lot of fun competing and I'm happy and proud to be here representing my country," said Mancuso, who has five world championship medals in her career. "I didn't have my best results, but I had a lot of fun watching other athletes compete and raise the bar of ski racing."

After eight of 11 races, Austria has a commanding lead in the medal count with eight, including five gold. The U.S. is tied for second with Slovenia and Switzerland with three medals each, however the Americans have yet to win a race.

Two-time defending world giant slalom champion Ted Ligety leads the U.S. contingent as the championships continue with the men's giant slalom on Friday. He won bronze in the men's Alpine combined race earlier this week.