BEAVER CREEK, Colo. – Anna Fenninger's ski tips nearly crossed going from one turn to the next late in her run, lurching her violently forward.

Somehow, the Austrian recovered. Improbably, she stayed on course. Even more implausibly, she hardly lost any speed.

Just that kind of world championships for Fenninger, where everything is going right.

Fenninger recovered from a near-wipeout to win the women's giant slalom title Thursday, while American teenager Mikaela Shiffrin finished eighth.

Leading after the opening run, Fenninger posted a combined time of 2 minutes, 19.16 seconds to beat Viktoria Rebensburg of Germany by 1.40 seconds. Sweden's Jessica Lindell-Vikarby was third.

Fenninger was cruising along in her run when she caught an edge. She didn't panic or try to fight it. Instead, she went with her momentum and that led her right back onto the course and on to her second gold medal at worlds.

These days, the skier with the cheetah pattern on the side of her helmet is fast even when she almost falls.

"When I came to the finish line and saw I was in the lead, I can't believe that," said Fenninger, who also won gold in the super-G and silver in the downhill at Beaver Creek. "It was too much for me."

Lately, she's been too much for everyone else as well.

"I told her to not be so fast, to take her time in the second run," said Rebensburg, who added her first world medal to the two Olympic medals she possesses, including gold in the GS from the 2010 Vancouver Games. "I'm very impressed with the performance of Anna."

Speaking of medals, Slovenia's Tina Maze wound up fifth, ending her quest to earn a medal in every event at Beaver Creek worlds. She's earned two golds and a silver so far, with the women's slalom Saturday.

Exhaustion finally caught up to Maze as she leaned over on her ski poles after finishing her run.

"My energy was not enough to be on the podium. I just couldn't bring out more," Maze said.

This was the first medal for Lindell-Vikarby at a world championships.

"I love the snow here," Lindell-Vikarby said. "It's a pretty easy hill."

Not for Lindsey Vonn, who struggled for nearly two weeks to figure out the nuances of the slope. But she may have discovered something in her final run.

After a shaky opening run, Vonn held nothing back on her second pass in her final event in front of a hometown crowd. She even had the lead for a little bit, before slipping to 14th, 3.22 seconds behind Fenninger.

"I really risked everything," said Vonn, who had boyfriend Tiger Woods on the sideline for her race. "I let it go. I'm really happy with my run.

"It's nice to end these championships on a positive note. I tried my best at these whole championships — not every run worked out."

Vonn earned one medal — bronze in the super-G — at this version of worlds.

Sablikova wins worlds speedskating 3,000m: Martina Sablikova beat defending champion Ireen Wust to take the women's 3,000 meters, and Jorrit Bergsma extended his reign as 10,000-meter champ on the first day of the speedskating single distance world championships on Thursday.

Czech skater Sablikova went head-to-head with her longtime Dutch rival and Olympic champion in the last pairing, and beat her by more than a second, conserving her energy to power away in the final lap. Wust's teammate, Marije Joling, finished third at the Thialf oval.

"I've won a lot in my career so only titles count. I've lost the gold," Wust said. "I started too fast."

In the 10,000, Olympic champion Bergsma cruised to victory in the absence of Sven Kramer, who did not compete in the longest men's distance.

Erik Jan Kooiman of the Netherlands was second, nearly eight seconds slower than Bergsma, and Patrick Beckert of Germany finished third.

"I started well and built up a good lead," Bergsma said. "In the end it got tough, but I had enough left."

Denis Ten takes lead skating championship: Olympic bronze medalist Denis Ten took a commanding lead Thursday after the men's short program at the Four Continents figure skating competition.

The Kazakh skater scored 97.61 points, beating his former personal best of 92.51. Ten, 21, landed a quad toeloop and a triple lutz-triple toeloop combination as he skated to "Caruso" by Lucio Dalla.

Ten, who is ethnically Korean, said the championship in Seoul had special meaning for him. Asked about his long-term goals, he said he had a "higher dream" for the 2018 Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, than the bronze he won at the 2014 Games in Sochi.

Japanese 17-year-old Shoma Uno was second with 88.90 points, completing a quad toeloop and a triple flip-triple toeloop combination in his debut at a senior international championship.

China's Yan Han was third with a score of 87.34, despite a stumble on a quad toeloop.

The men's free skate is Saturday.

Fourcade, Makarainen win World Cup biathlons: Martin Fourcade of France won the 20-kilometer individual race in the biathlon World Cup, and Kaisa Makarainen of Finland the women's 15-kilometer event on Thursday.

Evgeniy Garanichev of Russia was 14.2 seconds behind Fourcade in second, and Sergey Semenov of Ukraine finished third 48.8 seconds back, as fog gave way to a clear afternoon at Holmenkollen.

Fourcade was not in the lead until the second prone stage.

"It was not easy to start with the pressure of starting with bib No. 1. My mind was in a training mode," he said. "It was a battle against myself all day … but I enjoyed the competition."

Garanichev, on the podium for the fifth time at Holmenkollen, said, "I like the atmosphere here. It is a good place for me."

Makarainen led the women's individual race all the way and shot clean. She was unchallenged.

Darya Domracheva of Belarus was second, more than 78 seconds behind with one penalty. Veronika Vitkova of Czech Republic shot clean and was third.